[Music]
good evening welcome my name is Nicola
Longford I'm executive director here at
the six War Museum at Dealey Plaza and
this is a really special evening here
we're to honor and welcome back to
Dallas tonight special guests
mr. said Davis and CID will take us on a
remarkable flight with multiple stops as
he provides highlights from his long
illustrious career and tonight we'll
specifically cover the period where he
served as White House correspondent for
Westinghouse broadcast corporation Sid
had privileged access to the inner
sanctum of the Oval Office and his keen
reporting as eye witness to President
Kennedy's critical decision-making and
influence from one crisis to the next
will no doubt provide interesting
contrast to parallel issues today this
evenings conversation will be led by
curator Stephen Fagan Stephen has been
with the museum for 17 years oversees
the museum's oral history project and is
a key member of the museum's collections
curatorial and interpretive team Stephen
is a highly skilled interviewer and will
engage our special guests like no other
the design of these museum programs is
to construct tangible bridges from the
past to the present and to form new
pathways for future learning these
programs help shape and broaden the
depth of our collective understanding
and appreciation of historical events
that took place within living memory for
many of you here but not all of you in
fact for those of you that can remember
this exact time 55 years ago in October
1962 the Cuban Missile Crisis was a
terrifying 13 day period of intense
suspense infused with deaf political and
secret negotiations that very nearly
drew the United States States and the
Soviet Union into a nuclear war barely a
year later President John F Kennedy lost
his life here in Dallas and another sort
of crisis was placed on the nation Sid
Davis was here to document and record
both and as his is here now to share his
experience from a unique vantage point
these five decades later before turning
the stage over to Steven and said I
would like to fake thank fearless leader
Victor Elmer who is the board museums of
the museum's board chair over here for
his long support of the museum and for
all his guidance and support and I'd
also like to thank the incredible team
here this staff every one of them across
the entire institution as it really
takes everyone to bring such a program
as this one to life
and lastly said I'm most grateful to you
for agreeing to travel from the East
Coast back to the museum for this
memorable event and by helping the sixth
floor museum fulfill our mission to
collect record and make accessible these
important and historic experiences your
memories and perspectives for future
generations and so Steven take it over
thank you very much for being here
tonight it's always a pleasure when
we're able to talk to a participant
someone that lived the experience of the
1960s and you're in for a real treat
tonight because we're gonna cover quite
a lot of ground in a very short span of
time so I want to go ahead and get
started
said you were the White House
correspondent for Westinghouse
broadcasting take us back and tell us a
little bit about Westinghouse in the
early 1960s well first of all
Westinghouse broadcasting company was
the first company in the United States
to own a radio station it was KDKA in
Pittsburgh Pennsylvania and the first
radio station in America that was
commercial and it broadcasts the Harding
Cox elections and became a forerunner in
television when television came into
being I joined the company in 1959
September of 1959 I've been a news
director and a reporter in Youngstown
Ohio which is my hometown we had used to
have an expression in Youngstown which
OC : Steel town that I came clean from
Youngstown which was positive
in any case after seven years in
Youngstown I decided it was time to go
to Washington I've always wanted to go
to Washington and I joined up with a
Westinghouse broadcasting company and
had a wonderful boss I'll try to be
brief because there's so little time at
least for me but my first assignment I
was told I was going to cover the United
States tour of Nikita Khrushchev the
premier of the Soviet Union I was coming
out of a reporting in a town that had
the Mafia and pimps and whores and the
City Council and so on so I was moving
to the big leagues era and I was going
to be surrounded by some of the Titans
of American journalism who are on this
trip but I I got married in the in the
interim and my wife Barbara you see the
wife my wife's picture on the Air Force
one not explain that in a second but she
did a lot of research on Khrushchev for
me and communism and that helped me
along so I was my first assignment was
going on the road coast-to-coast with
Nikita Khrushchev for about fourteen
days and that was a experience in
himself let me explain the Air Force one
picture if I can momentarily that's my
little son Larry who's here the front
row stand up Larry please
dr. Larry Davis and his brother is dr.
Morse Davis we have two of them in the
family in any case the reason that
pictures taken is because we foo Air
Force One on many occasions and we were
flying only on trips to Texas when the
president wanted to stay at the ranch
for a period that was longer than a day
or two he would go for a month at
Christmas and sometimes in the
summertime we'd go for a month and that
we usually was the White House
Correspondents there were about 40 what
we call 40 regulars who covered the
White House we went everywhere the
president went and there were today
there are about 200 of them but they
don't travel the way we did some do
travel some don't and we went on trips
with Johnson everywhere and Johnson who
read the papers notoriously watch
television the choice he had three
television sets in every room in his
house and every and the Oval Office had
three television sets watch television a
lot and he decided that the stories
about him were better when our spouses
were along and so he made a deal this is
typical LBJ he made a deal with Pan
American World Airways the company that
fluid press plane that if we brought our
families that we $25 if you had one
child if he had two or ten the charge
was $55 round-trip on Pan at World
Airways Boeing 707s and the hotel he
Johnson got the hotel distil in in
Austin to give us a price on the hotel
room and our companies paid for all of
that so it was a real delight my son
Larry got to know President Johnson mrs.
Johnson coming down there he was very
good with children and that's the reason
you see Larry in that picture with
Barbara Barbara passed away a couple of
years ago but we had a wonderful time
covering the White House getting back to
what do you want to talk well we all we
all want to hear your stories but let's
let's go back because we're looking at a
picture here of Kennedy and Nixon the
1960 presidential campaign and in this
other picture is you with
President Kennedy the night before that
inauguration January 19th tell us you
spent eight weeks with Kennedy and eight
weeks with Nixon's right just a little
bit about the differences well notice
between these men I've always maintained
and talking about the 60 campaign that
throughout I think the Nixon Kennedy
campaign had the two most evenly matched
candidates in history really
they were both Navy veterans they both
were in the Senate for 14 years and in
the house and in temperament they were
quite different there were opposites in
temperament no no question about it
Nixon was I wouldn't say was a dark
figure but he was more of a cut fighter
he was a real politician and he could
get into the gutter if he had to attend
a more aloof even though he was just as
tough you know Kennedy had an expression
that you know forgive your enemies but
never forget their names that's a
difficult Kennedy family motto
but in campaigning I thought they were
both in intelligence they're both the
same but in temperament quite quite the
opposite Nixon was more more fisticuffs
than John Kennedy John Kennedy did
things in a more Placid way and
campaigning with him
Nixon angered much faster than Kennedy
did if you were in the situation where
it was uncomfortable Kennedy was more
gracious Kennedy knew to put flashed a
smile he always had a nicer comment
about people if there's a confrontation
of any kind of debates etc the 60
campaign was a remarkable campaign -
it's a classic television presidential
campaign the debates really were
remarkable they're short they're sort of
here to stay they have not abandoned
them yet they changed them somewhat the
League of Women Voters used to run it I
thought they were better when the league
random than others but the network's
took it over and the politicians got
somewhat involved the 60 debate
there were four debates I went to all
four I went through the first one was in
Chicago and I just one little short
story about it
Nixon was suffering from a staph
infection in one of his knees he just
felt rotten he felt lousy he medication
wasn't working that well he didn't look
well and the night of the debate when
the makeup people came around to put
makeup on people Nixon being this tough
street kid I don't want any makeup
sissies wear makeup he didn't say that
but I knew what he was saying I don't
want to put him on yeah you know
terrible complexion yes any other his
problem with his beard was even worse he
he shaved two or three times a day I'm
told this beard just kept growing on so
he always had a five o'clock shadow
Kennedy was wealthy enough to arrest it
up nicely in was at his father's mansion
down in Palm Beach Florida
lying son getting a nice tan he looked a
picture of health when he walked into
the studio there's only a couple minutes
left before airtime when they walked in
and shook hands you see been the picture
and Nixon had been told by his staff get
makeup you'd really need makeup at this
point
Nixon turns and he sees Kennedy and he
said and they cease it I'll take the
makeup well they only had they only had
about five minutes left here so the
makeup person went home so they sent
someone a staff member down to the local
CBS in Chicago and they got up they got
a package of maxfactor
pancake Joe's pants stick I think it was
called and they brought that and well
that wasn't television makeup and that
was not good makeup and they splattered
this all over his face and he looked
worse than he did before he looked
better when he was sick than he did when
they put the makeup on so he said the
disadvantage in appearance right off the
bat and he wasn't feeling well
and the bank went on and there are
stories that say that people who saw the
debate on television and thought Kennedy
won and the people heard it on radio I
thought Nixon it was I thought it was
pretty much close to a tie Kennedy was
the more gracious his language a little
better Nixon had a tendency to become
angry if he thought he was being
attacked and that showed his
performances bad the other problem Nixon
had was he perspired more than anybody
else I've ever known I mean he had a
gusher coming out of you and no one ever
taught him how to if you're a performer
there's a certain way you perform if
you're perspiring and movie stars know
it all the time if you're supposed to
perspire as part of the Act
for instance he take you out you take
your hankie out of your pocket and you
dab it gently
Nixon was perspiring and takes out his
hankie it was so his gestures were just
so on television that that counted
against him through the appearance of
Nixon on television just didn't help him
a lot let's let's use that as a good
segue because Kennedy has often been
called the first television president
and you attended so many of those
televised debates and the reporters who
had covered Eisenhower's debates acted a
little differently on the Kennedy in the
in the Kennedy debates tell us a little
bit about that well most of newspaper
people resented the television they
didn't like us because they saw
television creeping into their domain
they were the they were the authorities
and journalism they were the ones who
were the New York Times Washington Post
New York Herald Tribune LA Times they
were the premier people in journalism
and now we were encroaching on their
territory and Kennedy decided that he
would be the first president to have
regularly scheduled television news
conferences Eisenhower had one
television news conference but Kennedy
made it
about on every two or three weeks affair
and it's good at it too he looked good
he had always had something interesting
or humorous to say and the reporters
started realizing that the crowds the
audiences now we're not all newspaper
readers there were younger people that
are watching television and they saw
that what television did to people front
of mine was Peter listen were they some
of the older people in the room here
might know remember Peter lesser Chicago
Daily News
I helped Peter get in television and he
did some television and Peter said that
and talking about what the differences
were he'd been around a long time and
Peter said I can walk down K Street in
Washington for three hours and maybe one
person would come up to say to me and
say mister listen girl I read your
column I go on television for six months
and they go down K Street and a hundred
people will stop being the first block
and say I saw you on television last
night that was the difference between
the two television really taken over
newspaper people recognized it and more
and more than newspaper guys who were a
little more draggled than we were they
didn't care about what their clothes
looked like or wearing a nice shirt or
whatever they started going to the
barbershop before they got to the news
conference and they didn't get permanent
ways but they got a haircut they started
buying better shoes better clothes
because they caught the television bug
the Kennedy news conferences were
absolutely one of the most interesting
she ever attend because of the way he
handled the crowd he always had a pretty
good line if he had to a Ted Sorensen
one of his chief aides who wrote
beautifully and that a great sense of
humor he had Pierce at Pierre Salinger
as his press secretary who was a perfect
television press secretary and Kennedy
also called on women a lot in the
audience's one of the women so many
people there closer to my age would
remember Mae Craig
main newspaper she was a little eighty
year old grandmother and she wore a pink
till block straw hat and she'd get up
and point her finger of the president
and lecture him and she was they
couldn't have hired somebody out of
concentric casting to be more perfect
for the role because candy would treat
her so gently and he would go along with
it if she yelled at him and she would
criticize him quite a lot person for
instance said she raised a question at
one of the news conferences you have not
done enough about women and he said and
he shuffled his foot he gave you this
gorgeous herb Shriner look you know
I think you're right I think we can do
better so the audience it became a part
of the show to have a Craig in the
picture and they would select people in
the audience they knew the reporters
that were good television people good
props for the president so that they
would tell Kennedy were so on submit he
always knew where Mae was because she
wore the straw hat but for rich news
reports he would pick certain reporters
because they were a good television so
he was really a a a dramatic director of
his television shows and they became a
habit in America he held I think
something like 60 news conferences in
the time short time he was there because
he would use television a lot because he
was good at it
Nixon was not as good on television here
we have on the screen two events Bay of
Pigs April 1961 Cuban Missile Crisis
October 62 one a tremendous failure the
other perhaps the most successful and
important moment of the Kennedy
presidency you you covered both let's
talk a little bit about that I think
it's it's good to reflect on Bay of Pigs
while we talk about Cuban missiles so
you were you were following Kennedy he
was doing some congressional campaigning
yeah and pick up the story of the
missile that's the missile crisis they
have pictures right we'll talk about Bay
of Pigs in in retrospect we were we were
campaigning in
Cleveland Ohio and Springfield Illinois
the plan was Cleveland Springfield
overnight in Chicago
the next night in Chicago he was going
to make a speech to a Democratic Party
gathering and then he was gonna fly to
Seattle to close the World's Fair if you
recall the World's Fair was taking place
in 1962 I think was closing that year
the speech in Springfield was an
ordinary political speech not much to it
we flew into Chicago to overnight and
went to bed and before just before gone
we got a phone call there about 30 or 40
of us on this trip it was a normal
complement of White House Correspondents
and said that get down to the press room
as soon as you can we need you down
there immediately so I grabbed a shirt
that's my pajama bottoms on I don't know
what else I got I got enough to cover me
so I'd be wouldn't be arrested for
something I ran for the elevator and has
dressed myself on the way down the press
room wondering what the hell could have
been there so important I wake us up in
the middle of the night Pierre Salinger
addressing a small gathering and said
the president is suffering from an upper
respiratory problem he's got a very bad
cold and we're going back to Washington
so go pack your bags at the O'Hare
Airport
you know the press bus will take you to
our airport and so we got the oil here
Airport took off I mean one just a piece
of inside baseball here the press plane
always takes off after Air Force one
takes off Air Force One goes first we
follow tells us something our business
when your landing wheel and first an Air
Force one land
you know why photographs of the airplane
taking off and landing in the event that
Air Force One crashes on takeoff for
land so it's rather a ghoulish job as
well in any case we landed ahead of
Kennedy at Andrews Air Force Base in
Washington and he was wearing a fedora
now Kennedy never wore a hat he hated
hats the only hat he wore his president
was a top hat that is inaugural one of
the older correspondents Warren Rogers
of the Herald trib said there's
something screwy going on here he
doesn't wear a hat he doesn't look sick
and we started to reminisce about the
night before his speech was terrific
he gave a nice speech he was a good
shape we decided he was not sick that
we're being lied to so instead of going
home for the weekend when he we landed
back in Washington a lot of a state
around the White House thinking
something was funny here and by late
afternoon the black limousines carrying
the cabinet members and secretaries of
several departments and some military
people started coming to the White House
and then we knew we really had something
next question was what is it and the
thinking was primarily Berlin something
the Russians are pushing us again
Khrushchev us didn't want us in Berlin
we had West Berlin day at East Berlin
one of the reasons was that West Berlin
was doing so much better economically
and in every sense
East Berlin was a captive city and that
was a sore spot for Khrushchev there are
other political reasons for it but he
wanted us out of Berlin and he was
always testing us in Berlin so that was
we thought that was the flash point of
of World War 3 would be Berlin so we
focused on Berlin long about Sunday we
started hearing reports of the missiles
that we suspected were in Cuba we're in
the
there what happened was that Friday
night that we landed in Chicago the
YouTube films were we were developed at
this point and tennety was notified that
night that we confirmed there were
Soviet not only Soviet missiles in Cuba
Soviet MIG 21s and 23,000 Soviet troops
combat-ready troops in Cuba a reprisal
probably by Khrushchev against the fact
that we we sent some Cuban exiles in to
throw Castro out the year before that
might have been one of Khrushchev's
reasons I never saw it as a major reason
but we did and then at that point we
realized we were in a crisis mode
Kennedy was meeting several times it was
day Kennedy's brilliance in these
matters really showed in the in this
crisis area the National Security
Council and full membership is about a
hundred people or more a lot of people
in the National Security Council can he
decided right off the bat that he was it
a call at the XCOM and we reduced the
numbers he wanted a more manageable
group to manage so he reduced it
summarizing for about 40 30 or 40 maybe
even less than that so he could handle
everybody it wouldn't have a mob scene
when he wanted to make any decisions and
they started meeting the X they called
it the X comment and they started
meeting when when we heard that he was
deciding to have a smaller group and
calling it the XCOM then we knew it
really in trouble and that weekend the
president I learned a lot of us later I
learned from Clint Hill mrs. Kennedy's
Secret Service agent that Kennedy had
called mrs. Kennedy she was on vacation
at Glenora their place in Middleburg
Virginia and called mrs. Kennedy and
said he wanted to come back to
Washington and he told Clint Hill I want
you to get a helicopter this time
and Clinton told me later that we she
never used a helicopter from Glendora to
Washington she always came by limo so
when she landed on the White House a lot
that was another clue that something was
happening they quote reporter back from
Glendora the that weekend progressed
pretty well but the story started
leaking out that it might not be Burrell
and that it might be someplace else and
by Sunday we're pretty much convinced it
was Cuba nobody told us anything and
they announced that President Kenney
would have a nationwide address to the
nation at 7 p.m. on Monday night the
22nd of October which is the anniversary
of that was yesterday and so probably
Eisenhower call we have the you you
wanted to play up a brief segment of a
conversation a private conversation
between President Kennedy and former
president I said let me lead into it was
something right before the Kennedy and
the year before the Cuban Missile Crisis
and ordered or agreed to an invasion of
Cuba by a ragtag bunch of Cuban exiles
were supposed to overthrow Castro we
provided some flimsy airplanes old
military airplanes we didn't give him
much air cover it was a poorly organized
operation it was conceived by the CIA
during the Eisenhower years before
Kennedy took over eight weeks after
Kennedy became president the CIA came to
us and we got this plan get rid of
Castro we get down there with the Cuban
exiles and they'll come out of the
apartment buildings and their huts and
their houses and they will go into the
streets and overthrow the government and
the Castro will be out and Kennedy
bought it
it was a disaster and so he meant what
he called Eisenhower afterwards he was
getting all kinds of bad press Kennedy
wanted to have a little company in this
thing because Eisenhower had approved
this plan before he left office he never
ordered it but but he did very clever
politician mr. Kennedy says I got to
have my picture taken with Eisenhower
he's partly to blame for this I'm John
this is my my thing you know I've got to
get closer
Eisenhower was a very popular figure so
I said he invites Eisenhower up to Camp
David for talk and I have a transcript
of a conversation that they had up there
I said I was knew he was being used he
didn't like the ideas brought up there
he carried a fedora with him and he he
didn't wear it but he carried this in
that fedora behind him with both hands
and he was holding Fedora with both
hands behind his back and they only let
us take pictures from outside the gate
we couldn't go inside so we followed we
walked around where we could see they
walked around the beautiful Camp David
is a very beautiful rustic place and you
can see Eisenhower talking to him but
never took his hands off his hat behind
then they went inside the Aspen Lodge
which is the presidential Lodge up there
and Eisenhower and he had Kennedy had a
discussion and the transcript shows
Eisenhower says at one point I'll go
stir with all this case we don't have
that much time
but Eisenhower said now mr. president
that you talk about air cover for these
people you're sending down there the
rest of their lives and I didn't
personally do that you talk about some
incident that Kenny said no we said I
just assumed all of this eyes never said
you never assume you really lecture them
he tore into him in this private meeting
now it's a year later and the Missile
Crisis blossoming and now we're into the
Sattar that weekend just before the
speech yeah so here's the here's the
little clip of that phone call 55 years
ago yesterday sound quality is pretty
bad but it's a phone call from 1962
my idea this the Sam told yet we'll do
whatever they want for they figure is
good to them yet and I don't leave a
relate one situation with another that's
what they find our big of here and
what's your judgment as to the chances
they'll fire these things off we invade
Cuba all right
the question was what do you think juice
is gonna do what Kennedy didn't hints in
the first instance in this conversation
was to tell Eisenhower what his plans
were for this Cuban Missile Crisis now
this is a year after he got shootout and
Eisenhower's a little at start he's a
little cold to start because the last
time they saw each other Eisenhower was
a little upset that he got hauled to
Camp David and we take take one step
here to tell you a little bit on our
when the session ended up at Camp David
after Eisenhower really read the riot
act to Kennedy they gave us a
five-minute period to talk to Eisenhower
afterwards and being journalists and
being as nasty as we could be we tried
to get Eisenhower to dump all over
Kennedy to say nasty things about the
stupid Cuban invasion
and Eisenhower said I don't play that
game fellas I don't know criticize I do
not criticize the man I replaced and the
news conference I thought you ought to
know that now he said this on the
telephone with him and he's driving to
New York and Kennedy asked him whether
Khrushchev is going to invade really and
he said I don't think so
but then as the Eisenhower talked he
warms up to this guy and they become
very warm on the telephone each other's
a lot more to the conversation
Eisenhower's it's pretty good he called
me told me what he's going to do and I
share and he asked me what I would do
and that sort of thing and ten of these
last words were Thank You general I'm
going to hang in there that was the
first time a president ever said I'm
gonna hang in there but anyway they
ended up on it I mean it was a very to
me it was a just a very moving
experience to see these two guys back on
the same wavelength that they were
talking to each other again and then
later that same night again October 22nd
this is the scene in the Oval Office and
you're there you're not in this picture
we don't see you but you're in that room
when he makes this famous televised
address we're gonna listen to a little
clip of that and then I'd like you to
talk a little bit about being in the
room when this happened this clip
incident this clip listen very carefully
to this thing this is the first time a
president knighted States ever got to
this point on a crisis it's the key
point of the 17 minute speech that if
you had any perception of world politics
and foreign affairs you realize that we
were in deep doo-doo at this point
third it shall be the policy of this
nation to regard any nuclear missile
launched from Cuba against any nation in
the Western Hemisphere as an attack by
the Soviet Union on the United States
requiring a full retaliatory response
upon the Soviet Union all right good
yeah yeah very strong words they can
hear it out in the game our dinner yeah
I was gonna repeat it okay that was it
the third point that beat shall be the
policy of this nation yes this is very
important there was a third item in the
speech it shall be the policy of this
nation to regard any nuclear missile
launched from Cuba against any nation in
the Western Hemisphere as an attack by
the Soviet Union on the United States
requiring a full retaliatory response
upon the Soviet Union he wasn't gonna
bomb Cuba like our military people
wanted him to do or invade Cuba the
b-52s were already in the air while
Kennedy was making this speech that
afternoon it's two o'clock the Curtis
LeMay the chief of this chief of staff
at the Air Force gave it gave a briefing
to the staff the exocomps meeting that
1/8 of the b-52 bomber fleet was already
in the air going to a staging area he'd
be prepared to drop nuclear bombs on the
Soviet Union now of course you didn't
know that we didn't know that we didn't
know that four years later that they had
come we had come with that
that's far apart before we had nuclear
war Kennedy at one time says it's in
these meetings that we are very close to
nuclear war at the time
I thought that Cape pair addresses so
it's bone-chilling see it this now
obviously very relevant today here in
2017 and you're right there right now
for some extent with North Korea well
what what lessons can can we learn what
what can we learn from the Cuban Missile
Crisis that we can apply to today well
the first thing I think about having
seen the but the past two months and the
back-and-forth between the White House
and Pyongyang and the acrimony between
our president and and John Kim boom is
that I hope the president Trump reads
the transcripts the Kennedy tapes book
about what happened on the Cuban Missile
Crisis if he very instructive for him to
do that Kennedy never lost his temper
although Khrushchev was a demon and we
didn't like him
Kennedy stayed on a civil level with
Khrushchev and anything he said mr.
chairman and he was respectful
everything there was no name-calling he
didn't call him big rocket man or big
missile and there were no no none of
that
I mean the sophistication between the
two it's it's so remarkable and I have
to tell you that to me it's frightening
to some extent if you're already in a
belligerent situation why why make it
worse with language you don't need to do
that that's why you have diplomats so I
think that the lesson is you have a
president today that this is not a
military person he's not a government
official he's never been in government
he's always running this trying to show
the way he wanted it run and you find
out this president you can't run the
show the way you want to you
whole country out there that is
responsible to some extent for helping
you govern through the Congress and so
that's where I think that we're in a
very this is a tricky situation and I
have to tell you done very pleased the
fact that you have General Kelly
general mattis and general Masterson
helping to run the show right now my
concern is that don't make any of them
angry don't let them quit you bet it
you've had a revolving door and you
can't do that you've got the best that
there is in our military and you need
them desperately so I would just I think
doing a lot of reading about history
would be very good not what Kennedy
didn't have Kennedy was a historical
figure he he read a lot of history
he knew the nuances of diplomacy and it
showed everything showed in this
treatment the Missile Crisis is a I
think a textbook representative of how a
crisis has to be handled no shots were
fired we lost one person we lost a
YouTube pilots flying over Cuba before
the whole crisis emerged one other thing
about how close we came to or how many
of you are old I'm not going to ask your
agents but how many have rolled enough
to been around during the Cuban Missile
Crisis and many most of you are probably
two or three years old right let me just
tell you how close we were there was a
plan to evacuate out the White House
George Herman of CBS News was chosen as
the reporter who would go with President
Kennedy to other several mountains have
been carved out and our safety zones to
be
protect our presidents and Mount snow in
Virginia was a sight that they selected
as the number one site to go to if they
had to evacuate and my friend George
Herman had to bring a bag every day that
we came to work in case they were going
to evacuate that day if it looked like
we were going to war they with George
would have to go with the president they
were ordered by the Secret Service to
shoot anybody who tried to get on a
helicopter if they were not authorized
to do so the helicopters were based at
Anacostia Air Base which is a three
minute flight from the White House lawn
helicopters were not put on the White
House lawn because they thought that
would further frighten the American
people to see evacuation helicopters
there erricka people are not told about
the evacuation plan
and so the Allah coppers were kept out
of sight until there that they were
needed mrs. Kennedy was brought back
from Middleburg by shelled copter to be
in the White House in case anything
happened that weekend my friend Clint
Hill and Secret Service they said who is
mrs. Kennedy's agent told me that he
arranged for mrs. Kennedy to have a tour
of the White House bomb shelter so she
would know and this is some months
before the Cuban Missile Crisis that she
would know what she'd have to do with
the children if working and this family
would either go to the bomb shelter or
evacuate in this case they were not
going to use the bomb shelter they were
going to evacuate
mrs. Kennedy told Clint Hill prideless
this crisis reaching its highest moment
when he told her they might have to
evacuate she said mr. Hill if it comes
to that I will take John John and
Caroline by the hands and she said we
will walk to the South Lawn and we will
face the danger like the rest of the
American people it never came to that
but that was her attitude she was not
going to be evacuated and they were had
plans to take all these people to get
him out of the White House but I'm just
trying to I tell you these stories even
tell you how close we really came to
nuclear war and it was averted just by
common sense and the fact that we were
stronger Khrushchev knew that and
Khrushchev caved the deal that was made
it wasn't Khrushchev and removed the
missiles from Cuba and Khrushchev asked
Kennedy as a ploy or as a just so he
didn't lose face entirely he demanded
that the United States remove its Mook
its Jupiter missiles from Turkey that's
what one of the fish bones and his
throat is he once said was the missiles
are missiles in Turkey Kennedy said he
would do it but he didn't really want
the public to know he gave in on
anything so the deal was he he will do
it but don't announce it today let's
wait a while to announce it he didn't
want that announcement made at the same
time the Khrushchev caved in the
interesting thing about the deal was
that the Jupiter missiles that were in
Turkey were leaking fuel they were
rusting they were worthless and we had
already started replacing them with
intercontinental Minuteman missiles the
Jupiter's were medium-range these were
much better if we were putting them
stronger bigger missiles in so a week or
two later it was revealed privately the
Kennedy given the Jupiter missiles
that's the
I'm bringing that out because that's
diplomacy that's what you do you know
you don't throw rocks at each other
calling each other names
there are lots it's a lot more to
something than the crisis of this guy
we're gonna need to move on a year in
our timeline to Dallas November 22nd
1963 we all know what happened that day
Sid you were there in fact here we have
the arrival at Love Field why don't we
start there so you were there when the
Kennedys arrived you had been a little
concerned about Dallas being the most
conservative City on the Texas trip were
you surprised by the the enthusiastic
response oh yes I was to some extent
yeah there was there was some
trepidation in the press corps because
there been a couple of vents in Dallas
that occurred when the weeks or months
before the trip was announced for
Kennedy but they Kennedy trip to Texas
was two men the political fences in the
Democratic Party you guys in Texas are
always fighting with each other then
don't act like you're relatives even and
so there's this plan now where if
Kennedy comes down there and you have a
big power at the Oh beats a ranch on
Saturday the 23rd of November and you'll
bring them all back together so in 64
and then in the next campaigns coming up
you're going to win the election so the
idea was to bring the bring the
Democratic conservatives and liberals
back together you had Ralph Yarborough
on the liberal side you had John Condy
on the other side and they barely talked
to each other so Kennedy was going to go
down there and play the role of a good
Samaritan and try to bring them together
but we did have concerns about Dallas
that I don't think they were on big
concerns but we knew that Adlai
Stevenson UN Ambassador had been to
Dallas and you had a congressman here
Bruce Alger who was violently against
Kennedy and felt that Kennedy was too
soft on communism and apparently when
Lyndon Johnson and mrs. Johnson were in
Dallas there was a big
roughing up one of the hotels where some
reports where the mrs. Johnson was spat
on I don't know that's true or not the
other other one was that Adlai Stevenson
the UN ambassador was in town and there
was a demonstration around him and
somebody hit him on the head with a
placard probably not intentionally and
as they had a little cut there that's a
magnified so it got bigger and bigger so
that would look bad I'm sure in any case
with that atmosphere the press corps
said was Dallas with what kind of a
reception with Kennedy yet the Cold War
was in full bloom and the question and
there's a lot of conservatives here felt
that Kennedy was done handling it right
the crowds however when they landed at
Love Field you see Jackie getting off
the plane the president's behind her it
was I would say there were four or five
thousand people there the airport that
came out all the way out this out there
and they lie in the streets beginning at
Love Field the crowds were pretty good I
wrote I was on press bus number one that
press bus number one was eight car
lengths behind the presidential
limousine in the motorcade eight car
lengths is about 80 feet so we could see
the car we can see the president mrs.
Kennedy sitting in the car
this limousine is a Lincoln Continental
it's not a specially made one it was off
the shelf I was told later we always
thought that was it was bulletproof but
it wasn't Kennedy told the Secret
Service agents the week before that he
said I'm going to Dallas we're hoping to
get a big turnout I don't want you guys
running alongside the car
I want the crowds to see Jackie she's
important to this campaign he made a big
deal about how the country's really love
Jackie and he didn't want any agents
surrounding the car and we could
mistress dice this was told The Secret
Service one week before so when we got
the Dallas and went from blog field into
town a lot of us were amazed to see how
big the crowds were and we got down
around Elmen Houston streets it was
three or four feet deep of people lining
the area and everybody was cheering it
was a big welcoming thing the only
important thing that I saw in this whole
arrival from Dallas was a Piper Cub was
flying above the motorcade just off to
the side carrying a banner that said
coexistence is surrender and this was a
good service argument against Kennedy
for being too close to the Soviet Union
other than that it was a beautiful day
the weather was balmy was about 71 or 73
something in there
mrs. Kennedy and seemed to be for the
first time in a while she seemed to be
enjoying yourself three months earlier
she lost the the third child Patrick
Bouvier Kennedy died of hyaline membrane
disease and that was a setback for her
she was this was the first trip for mrs.
Kennedy outside the White House
following the death of this little child
so it was a big day for her and she in
Fort Worth and Houston the day before
she was justice she seemed he's happier
she loved the crowds she loved to be
among the people and therefore the
breakfast in Fort Worth she's always
late for breakfast on the road and
Kennedy remarked that Jackie's takes
Jackie a little longer to get here but
you will love it you appreciate her more
what she does get here he said no one
ever worries about what Lyndon and I
wear but they always want to know what
Jackie's wearing and so it was a
wonderful reception at Fort Worth my
bottom line is that I think the
assassination could have taken place in
any American city
I don't think it was it was not
preventable you can't prevent something
like that there's no way you have enough
agents to put them in every office
building in every win every window at
their motorcade
we're gonna take a look you wanted to
show the support film so we're gonna
take a look at that you've all seen it
before it never gets less disturbing so
just keep that in mind we are going to
show the entire film here Sid you were
eight cars back as you said walk us
through this
you heard three shots fired that's right
I was on press bus number one as we
rounded Houston and helm we are three
loud reports some of the people on the
bus thought there were motorcycles that
motorcycle cops motorcycles were
backfiring when he saw a motorcycle down
as you know they start the backfire and
we were moving very slowly probably
three or four miles an hour so the sound
of it of the thing was very clear to us
bought Pierrepoint at CBS News is
sitting next to be on press bus number
one he jumped out of his seat and he
said fellas that's gunfire that's not
the motorcycles
it's gunfire look up ahead so we looked
up ahead and we saw the presidential
limousine take out jump out of a
motorcade it just took off to the right
and it was heading up to Parkland
Memorial the Secret Service always knows
where the nearest hospitals isn't how to
get there so they took off we kept
yelling at the bus driver to catch up
with the presidential limousine he was a
joke
that bus is never going to travel as
fast as a presidential limousine is so
we didn't know where they took the
president so the only thing we knew to
do with the bus driver knew to do was to
take us to the trade mark and there were
about 2,500 people in the Train mark
having lunch waiting for the president
to speak and here comes the press corps
like a herd of elephants running through
the building killing our typewriters
asking where the telephones are for the
press room it was up on the second floor
and people said what's going on with
where's the president and we said we
don't know where the president
I got on the phone I called my office
and reported the gunfire and my bosses
filling Jim Snyder wonderful friend and
bureau chief he said said it's on the
wire Merriman Smith his file from the
motorcade that shots were fired into the
motorcade the President may have been
hit so I didn't know anything about the
president's condition I then left the
Trade Mart got outside I waved on a car
gentleman in a white Cadillac took me to
the hospital reporter I said yes I'll
get you to the hospital he took me to
Parkland Memorial Hospital I got there
just as The Secret Service were
scrubbing the back seat of the limousine
the president was not in the living
Saint Jacques he was gone - I got there
about 1 or 2 minutes after they had
arrived the Secret Service at me tried
to clean up the car so that no one would
see the blood and some of the pieces of
brain matter that were in it and you
cited a friend of mine for Time magazine
went over to you and said what's what
tell us what's the latest you and you
said he's dead just like that and all
hell broke loose we tried to get inside
the hospital you know let's go to the
second floor I commandeered a telephone
call my office and I didn't put that on
the air because it was not official
so you actually heard a priest say that
that I did I call my office and they
were waiting for word on the president's
condition they didn't know his condition
they just knew he was there and while I
was they asked me to do a report on what
I knew up to that point and all I said
was shots were fired into the motor cane
we don't know the president's condition
we're waiting to find out two of my
reporter friends were about 20 feet from
me and they waved at me they saw me on
the phone and they waved at me to come
down to where they were I went down
there and the priest his name was father
Oskar Huber and his Paris is in the
church zone and I got there just as I
heard him say he's dead all right I
gave him the last rites and he said I
told mrs. Kennedy that I believed his
soul had not yet left his body after
Catholic that there's a lot of meaning
and it was important for the father
Huber to tell us that I ran back
immediately it's wonderful nurse was
holding this telephone for me I never
got her name I just feel so terrible I
was able to thank her and I got back on
the phone and I said to my boss Jim take
me off the air he said why I said take
me off the air so he took they cut me
off here and I said Jim there's a priest
here that says the president's dead what
do you want to do he said what do you
want to do and I said I don't think we
ought to use he's the president Jim it's
different and he said I agree he was my
boss
and so I didn't put it on the air and
then I waited a few minutes and then
they announced there will be a briefing
in five minutes by Malcolm Kilduff his
social assistant press secretary
Salinger the press sir was on his way to
Japan to a meeting and I went down to
the room Malcolm Kilduff was sitting
there tears in his eyes streaking his
cheeks and he opened his mouth he tried
to speak and he couldn't speak the words
just didn't come out he had to force it
self and he said
president john f kennedy died today at
one o'clock Central Standard Time here
in Dallas
he doesn't died of a gunshot wound at
the brain I have no further information
and Noel broke loose I ran back forcibly
I had this lovely nurse holding my
telephone and I had a phone there at a
premium at that point and I broadcast
the death of the president itd states a
lot of people say how did you feel doing
it I didn't know how I felt because I
didn't think I was strong enough to do
what I did
I admired Kennedy I covered him from the
time he was done running for president
in the 60 campaign made lots of trips
with him I said give myself I just
realized that if I started to think
about what I thought of him I wouldn't
get through the day I would get through
the next ten minutes and so I just
became a robot and it could have been
John F Smith for all I was felt at this
point I was just trying not to think of
the emotional part of it he realizes you
know president knighted States as dead
as it's a hell of a book you're going to
do so I got through the whole day pretty
well and your day with a night just
beginning though I had a as as I was
filing some of my reports afterwards
from the hospital a White House official
grabbed me and said you have to come
with me and I was just still
broadcasting Kennedy's death and he said
you have to come with me now he had his
finger in my collar and I said doctor I
can't go with you said you have to come
with me you have no choice and he got my
arm and took me away and I yelled into
the phone Jim I'll talk to you later
and he couldn't be downstairs through
the emergency room area where they were
cleaning up some of the area right where
Kennedy was treated it's okay so I took
me out to a
unmarked police car with two other men
my friends Merriman Smith chief
correspondent for United Press
International he was the Dean of
Correspondence and Chuck Roberts at
Newsweek magazine they were already
there waiting for me and they needed
what they you have a wire service guy a
magazine guy they needed a broadcast guy
and I was the broadcast guy that's why
they waited there waiting for me jumped
in this police car and we just took off
like a rocket for Love Field I did some
stupid things on that thing I asked the
police officer driving the car I said
would you call my office gives us a
telephone number you call my office I
told him what my boss where I said well
you not sir something
he said we're maintaining radio silence
we don't know whether they're other
assassins and besides that I'm not going
to make a phone call for you
we we raced out the Love Field at about
60 or 70 miles an hour going over curves
will or a couple of front lawns because
we're racing to get the Air Force one
before it took off the casket was
already on route to Air Force One and
I'm not gotten there as yet well well I
pieced together after all of that was
that President Johnson and his thinking
of what he had to do now as for P
president to take the oath was to have a
public record of what we were doing
to his credit that he thought about this
that's why he wanted the press to be
present for that ceremony it was very
important to his just thinking about how
important it was I explained later a
little bit anyway we got to the airplane
they were loading the casket on the
plane
mrs. Kennedy had had boarded the plane
and they tried to get the casket in
through the rear hatch up there they
blocked it up the ladder and they tried
to get it in there three Secret Service
agents on each side and it couldn't fit
because the handles were so big was the
big 600-pound bronze casket the Secret
Service had picked up the casket at
O'Neal's funeral I may still be in
business and they they went in and said
we want the best casket you have that's
how they got the bronze casket now
they've got the problem so one of the
agents went inside the airplane there's
always an ax on an airliner you know
that in case it crashes you can't get
out of throw still living you break open
this fuselage with an axe they went in
there got the axe they knocked off two
handles they got the casket inside
meanwhile I was at the back of the
airplane watching some of them do this
ran around to the front with Smitty
Merriman Smith and Chuck Roberts got on
the front front stair got into the
airplane I went back amidships
there's a conference room on Air Force
One
and I went in the conference room and
all the Kennedy staff that traveled with
with Kennedy about half up were there
most of them are very young very
good-looking wonderful kids 23 24 year
olds either staff people for the press
office and they were in there and they
were terrible shape tears flowing and
sobs and I saw LBJ standing next next to
judge huge who was wearing this brown
dress with these white polka-dots and I
noticed myself over there so I could
hear what he was saying and I was
standing there when he said there was a
secretary Maria I want you to go back
and talk to mrs. Kennedy and they're
rarely aircraft and ask her if she would
like to stand with us for the
swearing-in and Marie went back to talk
to mrs. Kennedy mrs. Kennedy sent word
back with Marie yes I want to attend the
ceremony I need a few minutes to compose
myself she wanted to clean up a little
bit of course not I wasn't seen her
since she got air for
and took about five minutes and then she
appeared in the doorway to the
conference room which was about a 10 by
10 room you can see that but you can see
that picture
LBJ became the master of ceremonies to
some extent he asked his wife to stand a
certain place and he took mrs. Kennedy
by both hands and he walked backwards
and walked her into the position that
would be on his left and room quieted
down a little bit
but mrs. Kennedy entered the room and
shops had increased a lot I noticed when
she came into the room that she had
blood on most stockings the black right
stock he had more blood on it and more
congealed and he left stocking that's
where she cradled his his head in the
right side of her lap her suit was
flecked with flesh and blood
she was wide-eyed she knew where she was
I don't think that she was in shock I
think she was aware of everything and
she was aware of what she did and in my
judgment it was one of the most
courageous things a woman in that
situation could do the fact that she had
a split second to decide whether she
wanted to sit by the casket or come
forward her body her husband's body is
majestic
and I believe Jacqueline Kennedy knew
her station she was the first lady of
the United States and she felt that she
should be in that photograph somebody
else might have said I want to be but so
it was so important in this particular
case because of the political talk talk
about Dallas she felt that she I think
I'm not seeing this written anywhere but
I think she felt that she not been in
that picture
it would have spawned so many wild
stories and rumors about she didn't want
to go to Texas in the first place
Lyndon Johnson should never invited my
husband I cannot you can just see it and
she would have shunned Lyndon Johnson -
by not being in that photograph and she
saw the historic importance of that
photograph through the centuries and
that's the only evidence there is of the
swearing-in except for his do thing so I
always gave her a credit she's 34 years
old mother of two just had a terrible
situation losing a child and yet she was
able to think about what she had to do
his first win her public responsibility
was to be in that photograph I would
guarantee you I'd been to my house on
the fact that the stories would have
been so nasty about Texas and LBJ and
the Democrats and everything else
if she had not been in footy the rumor
mill would have gone wild and we have a
tendency in the press to go crazy as
well and I could just see the sinister
people among us writing all kinds of
alternatives to it so I think that the
picture became extraordinarily important
the minute the earth was over
LBJ shouted in a louder voice
let's get airborne and as he was doing
that a lot of Democratic congressmen who
had been in Dallas for this big power
they were going to have on the weekend I
started those goes in the cabin starting
to approach Johnson to shake his hand
and congratulate him I saw Johnson go
like this
he was not going to allow anything that
looked like a celebration to be in the
photograph or in that room he had the
good sense to wave it all off my friend
Chuck Roberts see Mike Newsweek
colleague to a new Johnson Johnny it was
a congressman told me so I got to shake
his hand I said what you say Chuck he
said well I looked up at him and now
he's president this is a guy I've known
for 25 years and I didn't know what to
say and then I said Godspeed mr.
president I thought see that I wish I
could have said that is really fantastic
Johnson then took took charge
immediately he ordered the airplane to
be taken off the ground the Secret
Service was anxious to get the airplane
out Dallas there was a conversation
between Bobby the president's brother
and LBJ there were two phone calls there
were some phone calls that said Bobby
said way to come back to Washington for
the over that's not true
LBJ didn't have much of it he took he
did what he thought was right take the
oath as soon as you can the wisest thing
they could have done take the oath in
Dallas instead of coming waiting two and
a half hours yet you're in the air for
at least three hours coming to
Washington and by the time he got to
Washington the bureaucracy would have
gone crazy and said well we have to have
a big ceremony so we'll wait till next
week to do it and you'd have done then
you ought to invite kings and queens and
princesses from all over the world this
is the easiest best fastest way to do it
that was LBJ's decision he convinced
Bobby that that was the right decision
and that was it was the right decision
they came to me and said they're only
two seats left on Air Force One to go
back to Washington
Merriman Smith gets one of them cuz your
wire service gets one because they
report for everybody you and Chuck have
to flip a coin
I said Chuck up getting off you can have
the seat he thanked me forever for the
rest of his life he thanked me because
he writes for Newsweek magazine they
write largely features they don't do
breaking news they write what what was
it like on he needed that time and being
on the airplane coming back he would
know it mrs. Kennedy had done during
this three-hour flight what President
Johnson did during the three-hour flight
I just wanted to get on the air so talk
about the swearing-in so it suited me to
get off and suited Chuck to stay on and
I left the airplane with judge Hughes
very nice lady 67 years old at the time
and I don't want conversation with her I
putting it off the field to give the
full report because the field was secure
so I said what would you go over talk to
sergeant over there and tell that cop
let me go off the field I got a report
to the rest of the press about the
swearing in and she said sure I'll go
over talked up come up over herb he said
lady you're not going anywhere you're
both staying here so I didn't off the
field but then the press press bus came
back to the airport with all the
reporters all my buddies and friends and
I gave a full report at the airport I
was the last one to file because
everybody else got to the phones before
I did
naturally a New York Times reporter had
more questions about what happened on
the airplane than anybody else so I had
a wait to the last reporter asked his
last question before I was allowed to
file that's the rule
you can't file the story for yourself
until you can if you're a full report
you have to give it to everybody so Tom
we're cover the New York Times kept me
there for another 10 minutes so I had to
wait everybody else did but I I had an
exclusive story I have an inside story
on you watched Air Force One take off
tell me the thought that was in your
mind when you saw that plane well here
I'm standing with judge Hughes and I
watch it I watched
Colonel Jim swindle was the pilot
Alabama and I saw him take the Air Force
one as far as he could go to the far end
of the runway because they loaded Air
Force One with as much fuel at the
Boeing 707 ever carried anywhere because
they didn't know where they were gonna
go
if Washington was under fire under siege
this is a large larger than
assassination problem they weren't going
to go back to Washington they would go
they would be directed to go somewhere
safe so the airplane was fully loaded
with fuel and I watched it just bare how
it used every inch of runway I just want
lumbering down that runway nice praying
get off the ground it moved up and I
start disappear into the eastern sky
heading back to it
I watched it stood there and just
watched it turned into a little speck
here you had the commander a new
commander-in-chief and the Fallen
warrior John F Kennedy in the casket the
back of the airplane
unbelievable the situation that was to
be covering it never I think I've ever
covered in like that judge Hughes was
standing next to me and she's in tears
she told me she said you know Lyndon
Johnson appointed me and John Kennedy
set it up for confirmation on the hill I
actually didn't nominated him then
they're not nominated her for the
judgeship and that Kennedy was the one
who chose her so she had a personal
relationship with the two men the fact
that they made her a federal judge
I do one thing that humor I would not
have worn that dress that day is that
she wore this great big yellow white
polka godson fit she had no choice
choice in the matter if you have
questions for Sid Davis if you'll fill
out your cards and pass them to the end
of your rows we'll take as many of those
as we can while we're waiting for those
cards Sid I know of course we have the
the funeral over the next several days
it's a it's a terrible weekend for all
who remember it and then we we have as
our last slide here we have Lyndon
Johnson a famous photograph there on the
right a picture of you and President
Johnson on the left yeah you spent quite
a lot of time with Johnson and there's a
great story about how you hitched a ride
with him once in the rain tell us about
that we were he was not president for
like this 1965 so it was a year and a
half or so Johnson was acted like no
other president and so did Lady Bird in
the sense that they invited everybody to
the White House Johnson didn't uh wasn't
it big for the ceremonial things he was
a down-to-earth poor kid from this Hill
Country of Texas and we game president
and he behave like one he was criticized
a lot for being so homespun I never saw
a problem but he's not president for a
year and a half I guess and he was
dedicating something in the Smithsonian
Institution's April 1965 a rainy night
in Washington and I covered it about
7:00 p.m. I started back to the White
House with 3 other reporters Charlie
more than New York Times Muriel Robin a
bobbin of Oliver Sun and a guy that I'd
never seen before it was his first day
ever covering the White House for mutual
Broadcasting we're walking in the rain
toward the White House there was only
about three or four blocks and the
presidential limousine pulled up
alongside of us window rolled on and
Johnson sticks his head out the window
he said you walk on a ride
said we're walking mr. president he said
well how would you like a ride he said
sure so we jumped jumped in the car jack
valenti his age also from Texas took
another seat up front and we sat with
the president he said that Valenti
when's my next appointment jack he said
your next appointment has been waiting
since 7 o'clock this morning Johnson
kept everybody he met all day until
midnight at one o'clock in the morning
most days and so we went to the White
House with him he said I have got time
to by these folks at scotch and Soda so
we went to the White House he ordered
drinks for us we were in the family
quarters and immediately started
peddling his programs war on poverty
Great Society Civil Rights Medicare he's
talking he's really he's always pitching
he never wasted a minute
scotch and Soda was the lure to get us
into the boycott and we had a few sips
of the drink and he said I'm going to
deliver a speech engine at Johns Hopkins
University tomorrow night on my end this
goddamn war and I'll let you hear parts
of it so he took us down to the Oval
Office he had Valenti go get the rough
draft of the speech he would deliver the
next night he spread his parts of the
speech there were two major points one
was going to be offering hochiminh
a bombing Hall of North Vietnam and a
billion dollar development program he
would give North Vietnam and South
Vietnam a billion dollars to do with it
what they want he would hope they build
bridges build hospitals educate children
all this the things he said they can use
this money I'll give him these things a
bombing halt and the money if only he
will come and talk to me face to face
just but one on one we sit down and we
try to end this damp
he was so hopeful this speech would do
it there's a beautifully done speech and
then he asked us to come with him and we
followed him up to the Lincoln Bedroom
he said sit on the bed I said sit on the
bed so Muriel said okay we'll sit on the
bed so so we sat on the bed and then he
got very serious and he said I come up
here many nights a week and I pick up
that phone over there and I call the
Situation Room and I asked how many of
my boys didn't come back today I
couldn't believe what I was hearing
I said whispered the Muriel did you hear
what I heard
he said I want to end this war I don't
know what it'll take but whatever he
wants I'll try to give it he'll just
come and talk to me and he talked for a
little bit more about the war and what
he's trying to do and then he walked
over to the portrait of Lincoln in the
bedroom on the wall he said I sure hope
I got better general Tsin he had the one
what's right is easy
he said knowing what's right is the hard
part
by that time it was getting close to
9:30 or 10 o'clock at night we'd been
with them an hour too and I got a little
nervous and at the late hour then he
came in and said you got to leave right
now it's too late so we all said good
night tell BJ
if mrs. Johnson was in New York he
didn't like to be alone so we were his
guests for the night so we left the
White House walked back out that we said
good night mr. president
we walked back into the rain we headed
toward Pennsylvania Avenue which would
have been Pennsylvania Avenue at that
point was freedom I got outside those
gates I said the mural is rear headed
for the gates of Muriel have we got a
story tonight I just couldn't believe
that we had this inside it's just a
Johnston's feelings it's the first time
he bared his soul to anybody in public
and just as we're leaning the right
house grounds there's a patter of little
feet behind us it's Valente the
president's aide stopped us he said wait
a minute
everything you saw and heard tonight is
off the record
so I never I have never I never printed
a word of the story I did the speeches
like this side but I never wrote a word
of the story and the bottom line is he
went back to work this incident this
picture of Johnson leaning into this gun
I got the guy he's leaning into is his
lawyer Abe Fortas who became a Supreme
Court justice for a short period of time
but Johnson could lean over he had a way
of being at standing on his feet not
falling down and bending over to where
the point the guy who was talking to was
way back he did this with a 90 year old
senator Theodore green of walk he had he
had him in a put green almost fell over
yeah he was trying to get on a piece of
legislation fast and that's how he did
it
Johnson with jaar jaar jaar until he got
what he wanted he's the greatest
he was the greatest parliamentarian ever
the serve in the White House probably
more legislation than any other
president Medicare 64 I'm voting public
accommodation 64 voting rights 65
Medicare you name it and he's done it
Johnson humanities education Job Corps
all of these things he was able to push
through because he told the staff even
on his way back from from Dallas I've
got a short time there's gonna be a lot
of goodwill toward me I can get some
things done if we do it early I'm
telling you he told us two members of
the cabinet send me everything you ever
thought the United States government
I'll do for people as fast as you can
because we have a very short window here
to get some of it done and he got a lot
of it done we have about 15 minutes left
so we're gonna try to go through some of
these quickly first will will knock out
a good chunk of these with me asking
this question do you think Lee Harvey
Oswald acted alone or do you think there
was a conspiracy I think Elia Harvey
Oswald acted alone period why
because I believe he shot and killed the
president he had a mail-order gun his
fingerprints were on the gun there's
been no evidence robbing corroborating
anybody that might have been in touch
with him he was a loner he didn't have
many friends I've talked to the guy used
to drive to work Buell went to Ray's
name is I've been on speaking programs
with the guy who used to take Lee Harvey
Oswald to work every day when he told me
he was he's a loner knowing that he had
very few friends he had a real happy
married life who knows what it was he
went to the Soviet Union he got in
trouble and some of the things he did
there his fingerprints are on the weapon
this receipt where he bought the
mail-order gun I think was 1995 or
something out of the mail-order house in
Chicago all the evidence points to that
that's that's the strongest point the
other points the others their so-called
conspiracy theories can be shot full of
holes and I do believe the Warren
Commission report I think they did a
reasonably good job they made some
mistakes but I think they the fact is
that no one has disputed the evidence
they have and I Secret Service friend
Clint Hill believes it was only one one
shooter I don't I don't think the
conspiracy theories hold up because
there's not enough evidence to support
it a lot of them have been shot shot
down a lot of more bike sensational guys
that want to right make a buck on
assassination you can you can make a lot
of money with a conspiracy book you made
it strange enough I don't know who wrote
that I don't mean to put down the person
who wrote it it was quite a few actually
what if quite a few people wanted to
know the answer to that well I'm sure
that you think I'm crazy the way I feel
but I don't think I am I just don't 50
51 54 years yeah I just don't believe
there's anybody in the woodwork it would
have come out some way by now had there
been I just don't see that's possible
all right there's there was also a
couple of different questions phrasing
different phrasings of the same basic
question there is so much antagonism
today between the press and the
presidency
how do you feel about this evolution
over the years considering the way you
discussed your relations well we didn't
get along we you know we didn't we
didn't trust everything the government
told us but it's our government as you
can be destructive about it say the
whole thing stinks there are the whole
things that swamp Washington is not a
swamp it's a pretty good place to live
there I think there many churches in
Washington's there are in Dallas we live
the way you people do nature the work of
the city is different I just resent the
fact that in this period here where the
press is being dumped on constantly by
the president States Nixon did it I'm
not saying that the Trump faces the same
outcome but Nixon's animosity toward the
press was enormous mainly because of his
own shortcoming his own faults he
created a situation where he was going
to subvert the United States
Constitution you can't do that you can't
after any tricks departments you can't
lie you can't want to burn down the
Brookings Institution because they don't
agree with everything you say I think
just because people don't agree with you
you're faking it's fake news the fake
news isn't coming from your newspapers
I'm sure there's they make mistakes some
stories are overdone there's a lot of
extravagant language and the things now
almost to the point today those spoke
vulgarity in the papers that I saw in
Washington Post yesterday used the word
pissed off my day in that you wouldn't
you wouldn't have a job tomorrow if you
wrote a story like that
standards are different I think the
major newspapers in this country the
Dallas Morning News I think there's
irresponsible newspapers they don't go
to press every day saying they're going
to fund
fake news if you want fake news go to
the Internet go to the bloggers who's
checking their copy if you have a
president that's on the air and how he's
tweeting I remarried to a beautiful
woman I wouldn't be tweeting it two
o'clock in the morning sorry to bring a
subject if you're going to tweet you
know get some fact-checkers well in the
New York Times did a piece recently
where they counted 1000 confirmed lies
and statements the president makes how
long can you do that get away with it
and yeah just because you declared the
truth doesn't mean it is that you
everything unless you can prove it and
there are places to go after you're
going to tweet get them in a
fact-checker that's going to be there
there's a lot of heartache would think
of the corrections so now we're going
through a period now where there's a
deliberate campaign against the press
and yet if you my understanding talking
to people who cover the White House
today a lot of the White House reporters
like a president Trump a lot because
he's accessible well you know President
Obama was not really accessible he's
very shy and he was a a noodler he like
if you had a serious problem
it took President Obama a long time
before he made a decision he would
examine every aspect of every problem
what Stanley McChrystal wanted more
troops from Afghanistan he waited six
months for an answer
President Trump because he wanted to
make sure sending six thousand or fifty
thousand more troops to Afghanistan was
a good move
so what McChrystal did is he he leaked
it to the Washington Post that he wanted
these troops a secret request for troops
and so people in government like
McChrystal got very impatient with Obama
because
he's a Mormon talent intellectual but he
would study things until they were until
he was positive what he was doing he was
right then you have Donald Trump was a
little more impetuous a little guy wants
more answers more action before other
presidents did it takes all kinds I just
when you start to attack the press I'm
reminded pretty much of President Nixon
and his attitude toward the press he
didn't like him that he was never
popular in California with the press he
that he resented that he was always
behind the eight ball in terms of
economic standings not rich and I think
that had a lot to do with his attitude
toward Kennedy and sort of a lot of
other people the look we have something
here
[Music]
forty men
meaning in 1787 came up with the most
beautiful document ever written
throughout history the First Amendment
says Congress shall make no law
respecting an establishment of religion
or prohibiting the free exercise thereof
or abridging the freedom of speech or of
the press or the right of people to
peaceably assemble and to petition the
government for a redress of grievances
very First Amendment of the US
Constitution says hands off the press
oh the president took says I do solemnly
swear or affirm that I will faithfully
execute the office of President of the
United States and will to the best of my
ability preserve protect and defend the
Constitution of the United States and
the very first amendment in the
Constitution is the Bill of Rights and
freedom of the press and the right to
assemble so he accepted this challenge
he's it's on paper he said he's going to
uphold the Constitution of the United
States and now he wants to change it
because he wants to be able to sue the
press for life now those of you who are
lawyers in the room or has some senseof
with illegal stuff if you are a public
official it is very tough to win a libel
suit because you have the extra burden
if you're a public official
of proving malice you've got to prove
that you were damaged and throughout
history public officials have a tough
time winning libel suits so our
president wants to change the
Constitution I think you'll have a tough
time changing the First Amendment I
think Republicans and Democrats of life
not by that I want to ask one more
question because I think it's a fitting
question to end our evening tonight this
is a question about your coverage later
the night of the assassination when you
were at the White House and the Navy
ambulance arrived and you signed off
with a quote from Robert Frost was your
lovely dark and deep but I have promises
to keep and miles to go before I shall
we
the question was what made you decide to
use that I don't know I really don't
know
I knew I knew that I'd have a cuff well
you see how emotional I was a couple of
things tonight I knew it was gonna be
tough for me to say it I had been up for
two straight days at that point in San
Antonio and then Houston and then Fort
Worth and Dallas and I covered the
assassination I gave the full report and
that I had to wait for the press plane
to take us back to Washington somewhere
11 p.m.
that's November 22nd 63 and
I don't what I'm when I arrived at the
White House by the way it when I arrived
at the lighthouse Merriman Smith the
Dean of the correspondence and the White
House correspondent for United president
Ashton was waiting for me and he put a
hammerlock on me and he said you son of
a bitch I told you the time was 239
Central Standard Time and you wrote that
the North was given a 238 Central
Standard Time now what happened was when
I gave the full report I gave my words
and my notepad you saw my notepad to 38
p.m. and when I gave the full report
when I left the airplane Smitty I
mentioned that should have mentioned
this earlier submitting yelled down the
ramp as I was leaving with Judge Hughes
the time was 239 you got a kid he called
me kid and he was a Dean of correspond
so he felt that whatever he said went
and when I gave the full report I gave
my time instead of his time and when he
got back to Washington the story he
wrote for United Press International my
time was inserted into his story so he
was furious with me because at one
minute he we were good friends and we
were be ended up being very good friends
he forgave me the prodigal son he
forgave me after a period of time but he
why did I use a Robert Frost thing
because Kennedy used on the campaign
trail we would be campaigning he would
never campaign with a jacket he wear
justice is the shirt or suit jacket and
it'd be quartered in hell when you got
to the eastern part of the United States
and the Appalachian so he went to
eastern Pennsylvania where the
anthracite region talking to coal miners
called talking to their families at the
end of every speech he would close with
Robert Frost the woods are lovely dark
and deep but I promise us to keep and
miles to go before I sleep and he said I
have the next I promises to keep next
stop such as such
and when I was doing the broadcast at
the White House I was broadcasting with
her Westinghouse broadcasting colleague
& korek and we both did it to show the
body arrived at 4:00 a.m. the next day
the next morning I had not been to bed
for two days with because I never didn't
sleep and Fort Worth bed
the night before I was tired but I
wanted some way to close the broadcast
with something better than I could say
myself nothing I wrote compares with
Robert Frost and I wanted the closure
that would do it there were 400 people
outside the White House gates it was a
chilly November very crisp air the
leaves were already off the trees
because they're rather bleak I'd watch
the ambulance come up the driveway with
mrs. Kennedy seated in the back with her
hand on the casket incidentally some of
you may say why was it an ambulance
carrying the president's body it was
because mrs. Kennedy did not want John
Kennedy to be carried in a hearse so at
the Thursday Naval Hospital when the
need for the ambulance came after the
post-mortem Secret Service went
downstairs with mrs. Kennedy's
instruction that she wanted an ambulance
and the stage said to the young
lieutenant j.g at the desk
by the way sir we'd like to have an
ambulance instead of a hearse and young
fellow looked at the book sorry
Naval regulations say they were not
permitted to carry a corpse an ambulance
and the agent said son if I were you I'd
[Music]
and that's the way it was well no but I
mentioned Clint Hill mrs. Kennedy's
agent he's he saved her life and tried
to save John Kennedy's life I really
can't conclude the program like this
without mentioning the Secret Service
and the people who work in the
government they take a bum rap most of
the time as Dallas did during the
assassination
Clint Hill was a father of two children
two sons when he covered the White House
as a special agent in charge of the
presidential detail particularly mrs.
Kennedy
he earned $4,000 a year
and for that he was expected to throw
his body in front of the president and
take the boys among the other difficult
things he had to do as an agent it's a
tough life a tough job and so I always
think if people like Clinton Hill this
is a more remarkable story because Clint
Hill for many years after the
assassination did not work for you much
he turned to alcohol for a while he
believed that if he had gotten to the
right side of the presidential limousine
chasing after dozens of pruder filming
some softly Queen Mary the follow-up car
tries to get to the presidential
limousine mrs. Kennedy was already on
the trunk of the car
Clint tried to get around to the right
side so he didn't protect you if there
are more shots that he would take the
shots but he realized the car was moving
too fast and he going the straight line
that mrs. Kennedy was faster and he
wouldn't have made it to the other side
he stumbled almost into the street if he
had fallen into the street that follow
up cars 1955 Cadillac convertible
it weighs 8 tons it would run over him
if it run over him he had been killed
and if the car continued to go with mrs.
Kennedy on the trunk she would have
fallen off the trunk because it was
increased the driver didn't even know
she was on the trunk
she'd have fallen often been killed from
so Flint Hills ok now he he's actually
been here before he's become an author
of several books yeah he's been here
several times yes yeah I know he that's
right so you've you've been here you
know Clint Hill but I my hats off to the
people I work with Secret Service and
people like that the only other relief
other comment I have is coming back to
Washington
we went to the before with hit press
plane took off we gathered at the Dallas
Press Club which serves great liquor but
right why nots correspondents have a
reputation for this for the grape as we
say and we went in there to wait for the
press plane to take off from what field
and naturally the request for whiskey
was me Bob Donovan of New York Hill
Tribune nasty tall black waiter if you
can get us a bottle because we're very
tired been a tough day we have much to
do from now on and a waiter said I'm
sorry bars closed
no liquors being served and Bob Donovan
said look we really need a drink
the way repeatedly
at one point
Bob said well can't you break the law
and get us a bottle
this guy had a voice like a Wurlitzer
organ he said I think enough laws have
been broken in Dallas today that's a
good note to end on
Sid Davis thank you so much
[Applause]
[Music]
you